# Preface

ASP.NET has a long history, i.e., Microsoft released the first version in 2002 as part of
the original .NET Framework 1.0. Since then, it's been through multiple iterations, each
version bringing added features and extensibility. But each version was built on the same
underlying framework provided by System.Web.dll. This library is a part of the .NET Framework,
and so comes pre-installed in all versions of Windows.

This brings mixed blessings. On the one hand, the ASP.NET 4.X framework is a realiable,
battle-tested platform for building modern applications on Windows. On the other hand, it's
also limited by this reliance, i.e., changes to the underlying System.Web.dll are far-reaching
and, consequently, slow to roll out. It also fundamentally excludes the many developers
building on and deploying to Linux or macOS.

When I first began looking into ASP.NET Core, what I saw really impressed me. ASP.NET Core
let developers leverage their existing knowledge of the .NET Framework and of ASP.NET MVC
applications in particular, while baking-in current best practices like dependency injection,
strongly typed configuration adn logging. On top of that, you could build and deploy cross-
platform. I was sold.

This book covers everything you need to get started with ASP.NET Core, whether you're
completely new to web development or an existing ASP.NET developer. It focuses very much
on the framework itself, so I don't go into details about client-side frameworks such as
Angular and React, or technologies like Docker.